
President Trump tried on a military jacket while visiting troops last
year. Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times

The president wants a parade, but not some girlie, frilly procession
that limits itself to high-stepping musicians, high-reaching
headdresses, flutes and floats.

He wants muscle. Metal. He wants tanks and soldiers and planes. In his
Veterans Day vision, Pennsylvania Avenue bulges with artillery, because
in his blinkered view, that’s the measure of a nation’s worth. It’s also
the affirmation of his potency.

The president wants us to know that if he’d been outside Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., when the shooting began,
“I’d run in there even if I didn’t have a weapon.” Can there be any
doubt? If Donald Trump is known for one thing, it’s fearlessness.
Selflessness comes in a close second.

Ronald Reagan starred as a cowboy in Hollywood westerns. George W. Bush
strode across the deck of an aircraft carrier in an olive flight suit
and an ejection harness to declare — prematurely — that a mission had
been accomplished.


But I’m not sure that any president over the past half century was as
perversely insistent on his manhood, as narrow in his definition of it
and as superficially fixated on brute strength as the Oval Office’s
current occupant is.



What a shame, because we’re struggling right now to forge a healthier
sexual dynamic between men and women and to stop young men from
exploding violently. We sorely need a better and more nuanced model of
masculinity.

Instead we have Trump, the “Access Hollywood” president, whose message
is that real men fetishize weapons, glorify brutality, degrade their
adversaries and grope the objects of their affection. He’s not angling
to be a parade marshal. He’s adamant about a martial parade

On the brutality front, Jonathan Swan of the website Axios recently
reported

that Trump has a private obsession with capital punishment for those who
push drugs and a desire to emulate countries less concerned with due
process than ours.

“He often jokes about killing drug dealers,” a senior administration
official told Swan. “He’ll say: ‘You know the Chinese and Filipinos
don’t have a drug problem. They just kill them.’”

For Trump, toughness obviates restraint. It precludes mercy. It isn’t
calibrated but it has a caliber, because toughness means packing heat.
Just as striking as his call to arm some teachers — “only the best,” he
tweeted
<https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/966650397002813440?lang=en>
— is his inflated estimate of how many of them are adept with firearms
and his romanticizing of that group.

He said that if a Parkland football coach who died while shielding
students
had been carrying a gun, “he would have shot and that would have been
the end of it.” That’s a huge leap, but for the president, contact
sports and marksmanship are of a manly piece.

Responsible Americans are calling for more safety in football. Trump
advocates the hardest possible hits
<https://www.si.com/nfl/2017/09/23/trump-nfl-fire-players-who-protest-during-anthem>.

In the wake of disasters natural and man-made, he lavishes his words on
the rescuers, the police officers, the paramedics. They deserve every
syllable, but he sometimes shortchanges the victims

It’s action that interests him, not vulnerability, and he made that
clear long ago, with his casual dismissal of American prisoners of war.
“I like people that weren’t captured,” he said, in answer to a question
about Senator John McCain

He elevates coal miners over computer pioneers. Real men have dirt or
dust under the nails.

His are neat and clean. “He’s the opposite of a tough guy,” his
biographer Michael D’Antonio <http://www.michaeldantonio.net/> said.
“He’s a frightened guy. A tough guy wouldn’t have to demonstrate it.”

I asked a renowned psychiatrist about the way that Trump surrounds
himself with military generals

and moons over

leaders
<https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/13/opinion/president-trump-authoritarianism.html>.
He noted that boys between the ages of 6 and 10 “get fascinated with
Superman and all these powerful figures because of their own puniness.”
Perhaps some 71-year-old billionaires do likewise.

But I’m less concerned with Trump’s insecurities than with his example.
D’Antonio told me: “This is masculinity by way of 1950s comics and 1960s
Playboy magazines. It’s a cartoon.”

And it’s dangerous, as two compelling essays in The Times recently
suggested. Reflecting on the troubled young men behind our country’s
mass shootings, Michael Ian Black wrote
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/21/opinion/boys-violence-shootings-guns.html>
that many boys are trapped in an idea of manhood “where there is no way
to be vulnerable without being emasculated, where manliness is about
having power over others.” Trump sets that very trap.

Examining why men sexually abuse and harass women
<https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/24/opinion/sunday/real-men-masculinity-rejected.html>,
Moises Velasquez-Manoff observed that for many of them, “It is precisely
the power imbalance that’s erotic.” Doesn’t that sound true of Trump?

He taunts (“Liddle Marco”). He bullies (“Lock her up”). He struts. He
thrills to violence — at least from a distance. All of this has nothing
to do with strength, and it’s less paradigm of masculinity than
pantomime of it.

What would Donald do? We should tell our sons, grandsons and nephews to
figure that out, focus on it — and then take the opposite tack.



